"Societies have always been shaped more by the nature of the media by which men communicate than by the content of the communication." 

"Innumerable confusions and a profound feeling of despair invariably emerge in periods of great technological and cultural transitions. Our 'Age of Anxiety' is, in great part, the result of trying to do today's job with yesterday's tools - with yesterday's concepts."

"Our time is a time for crossing barriers, for erasing old categories - for probing around. When two seemingly disparate elements are imaginatively poised, put in apposition in new and unique ways, startling discoveries often result."

"Electric circuitry has overthrown the regime of 'time' and 'space' and pours upon us instantly and continuously the concerns of other men. It has reconstituted dialogue on a global scale."

"The old civic, state and national groupings have become unworkable. Nothing can be further from the spirit of the new technology than 'a place for everything and everything in its place.' You can't go home again."

"Too many people know too much about each other. Our new environment compels commitment and participation. We have become irrevocably involved with, and responsible for, each other."

"All media are extensions of some human faculty - psychic or physical. The wheel is an extension of the foot. The book is an extension of the eye."

"Media, by altering the environment, evoke in us unique ratios of sense perceptions. The extension of any one sense alters the way we think and act - the way we perceive the world. When these ratios change, men change."

"The dominant organ of sensory and social orientation in pre-alphabet societies was the ear - 'hearing was believing.' The phonetic alphabet forced the magic world of the ear to yield to the neutral world of the eye. Man was given an eye for an ear."

"The alphabet is a construct of fragmented bits and parts which have no semantic meaning in themselves, and which must be strung together in a line, bead-like, and and in a prescribed order. Its use fostered and encouraged the habit of perceiving all environment in visual and spatial terms - particularly in terms of a space and of a time that are uniform, c, o, n, t, i, n, u, o, u, s and c-o-n-n-e-c-t-e-d."

"Ours is a brand-new world of allatonceness. 'Time' has ceased, 'space' has vanished. We now live in a global village... a simultaneous happening."

"We have had to shift our stress of attention from action to reaction. We must now know in advance the consequences of any policy or action, since the results are experienced without delay. Because of electric speed, we can no longer wait and see."

"Unhappily, we confront this new situation with an enormous backlog of outdated mental and psychological responses."

"Information pours upon us, instantaneously and continuously. As soon as information is acquired, it is very rapidly replaced by still newer information."

"Our electrically-configured world has forced us to move from the habit of data classification to the mode of pattern recognition. We can no longer build serially, block-by-block, step-by-step, because instant communication insures that all factors of the environment and of experience co-exist in a state of active interplay."

"Print technology created the public. Electric technology created the mass."

"We look at the present through a rear-view mirror. We march backwards into the future."

"Professionalism merges the individual into patterns of total environment. Amateurism seeks the development of the total awareness of the individual and the critical awareness of the groundrules of society. The amateur can afford to lose. The professional tends to classify and specialize, to accept uncritically the groundrules of the environment. The groundrules provided by the mass response of his colleagues serve as a pervasive environment of which he is contentedly unaware. The 'expert' is the man who stays put."

There is more.