"You may need to press the 'experience' key. Its function is to answer some profoundly important questions: Where have I seen this before? When did it happen last? And what was the outcome?" (p.18)

"Such programs are designed to sift through complex floods of data looking for trends and patterns as they emerge. They are constructed as layered networks. Data values are drawn in at the bottom and passed upwards through a series of data-refineries, which attempt to convert them into increasingly general and comprehensive chunks of information. As low-level data flows in at the bottom, the big pictures comes into focus on top." (p.27)

"[how] can you value something of which you have no concept? How can you value the whole if you don't know what it is?" (p.33)

"It's nice to gaze up at the night sky, but if you want to comprehend what is up there, gazing is not enough; you need instruments too." (p.34)

"[this software] will rub your nose in the big picture." (p.34)

"You might want to send a letter to this person, any place: You don't know where the guy is, or you don't care; maybe, for that matter, he moves around unpredictably. But you still know who he is, and you have a message for him. Or let's say you have a message for any one, any place, any time. This is a vital species of communication when you're building software ensembles: you constantly confront the need to communicate with anyone who's willing to do this new task." (p.77)

"At the time you create the message, everyone may be busy; no-one may be interested; it's not merely that you don't know who the recipient is, there is no recipient." (p.77-78)

"A broadcast is a this time event; we need something that holds good at every time." (p.78)

"We need communication through time, in other words, not merely through space." (p.78)

"Throughout human history, mankind has been a lot better at gathering data than at thinking about it." (p.112)

"When you double an engine's horsepower, you'd better improve your brakes, tires, suspension and steering as well." (p.112)

"Remarkable means 'worthy of notice.'" (p.152)

"To notice something means to devote some attention to it, in some sense; to be distracted by it." (p.152)

"So to speculate requires that you be distracted by something interesting. Hence we need to build a program that is capable of being distracted, and we need a working definition of 'interesting'." (p.153)

"Intuitively, something is evocative to the extent that it brings other things to mind." (p.153)

"Something is interesting if it is evocative and possible." (p.154)

"The cases that are close to the new one are the cases that tend to match on evocative attributes." (p.155)

"This is plunge." (p.155)

"The most relevant memories approach closest; and the less-relevant ones recede into the distance." (p.155)

"Squish means to look at the closest cases that are attracted by a plunge, and compact them together into a single "super case." We take all these nearby memories (in other words) and superimpose them." (p.156)

"We learn a new attribute. We add the attribute to our new case. We plunge the case into our pool of memories, and attract a collection of 'close cases.' We squish the close cases together, and examine what they have in common. If we reach any conclusions, we add them to the new case. If we notice any evocative possibilities, we get distracted and speculate." (p.161)

"When we form a permanent squish, we are creating a rule or principle or template or generalization. We've taken leave of our particular memories, and substituted a general-purpose template instead. Another name for this kind of generalization is forgetting. I've forgotten the distinctions between a bunch of individuals. I've remembered only the similarities." (p.163)

"This kind of forgetfulness will be extremely useful, because it saves space." (p.163)