"Social Life of Information" John Seely Brown and Paul Duguid

"In the aftermath [of the Boom], it has become clearer that technology alone cannot dictate its ultimate route.[4] Social life, social needs, and social aspirations remain critical influences. To ignore this is simply foolish." (p. x)
"Rather, we are arguing that by engaging the social context in which these technologies are inevitably embedded, better designs and uses will emerge." (p. x)
"Again, bots help us illustrate one point. Where Joy saw humanity and bots on a collision course, Wired 8.03 assumed that the two were heading in the same direction. Both accounts missed a critical point about bots and, more generally, computers. These technologies are quite remarkable, but what they do remarkably is very different from what humans do." (p.xii)
"Indeed, their great advantage comes from their complementarity: Where people are clumsy, bots are often adept. But equally, where people are adept, bots are often clumsy." (p. xii)
"Bots, then, are impressive at identifying people as one of a certain type. People, by contrast, are impressive at identifying others as individuals and dealing with them in context - a complex, highly situated form of interaction that computers are unable to replicate." (p. xii)
"as often as not new technologies augment or enhance existing tools and practices rather than replace them." (p.xii)
"Standing atop gigabytes, terabytes, and even exabytes of information will not necessarily help us see further. It may only put heads further into the clouds." (p.xiii)
"Yet the amount of time people spend consuming (which unlike producing is not indifferent to meaning) is growing by only 1.7 percent a year (and presumably has natural limits)." (p. xiii)
"While people often talk of 'markets for information,' here is a clear case of market failure. Supply and demand bear no relation to one another." (p. xiii)
"Indeed, much of the 'infosphere' continues to resemble one of those open-mike poetry readings in New York bars where everyone comes to read and very few to listen." (p. xiii)
"While standardization may benefit consumers in one way, specialization and differentiation benefit them in others." (p. xv)
"[information fetishism] During the industrial revolution, Marx argued that in a commodity-obsessed society, people focus on the relationship between people and commodities and in so doing ignore the underlying and crucial social relations that connect people to one another and that allow commodities to be made. He called this obsession 'commodity fetishism.' [17]" (p. xvi)
**"Another theme of this book is that self-organization and formal organization are not simple alternatives. Nor are simply complementary. They live in tension with one another." (p.xviii)
"Contrary to assumptions that all it takes is technological innovation, a digital revolution too will need similar nontechnological innovations to fulfill its potential." (p. xxi)
"Practice, as Barry Wellman and his colleagues wisely note, does not slavishly follow possibility. [36] The fact that people can go online doesn't necessarily mean that at every opportunity they will or they should." (p. xxii)
"Wisdom may require experience, but it doesn't necessarily follow from it. Often forgetfulness does. Indeed, mankind, as Samuel Johnson presciently noted, needs more often to be reminded than informed." (p. xxiv)
**"Tools fight back when they offer people worthwhile resources that may be lost if they are swept away. So rather than condemning humanity as foolish, primitive, or stubborn for sticking with the old and rejecting new, it seems better to stop and ask why." (p.3)
"Generations of confident videophones, conferencing tools, and technologies for tele-presence are still far from capturing the essence of a firm handshake or a straight look in the eye." (p. 4)
"We are all, to some extent, designers now. Many questions about design are thus becoming questions for us all." (p. 4)
"Too often, we conclude, the light at the end of an information tunnel is merely the gleam in a visionary's eye. The way forward is paradoxically to look not ahead, but to look around." (p. 8)
"Though any of these technologies can undoubtedly be infuriating, most people who complain want improvements, not to go back to life without them." (p. 13)
"But those successes have extended its ambition without necessarily broadening its outlook." (p. 14)
[Industrial Revolution vs Information Revolution] "...people didn't complain that they were drowning in atoms." (p. 15)
"With the telegraph, the speed of information essentially separated itself from the speed of human travel." (p. 17)
"For though it asks where you want to go, Microsoft isn't offering to take you anywhere." (p. 20)
"Atoms are not expected to move, only bits." (p. 20)
"In the end, Microsoft's view of your wants is plausible so long as whatever you do and whatever you want translates into information - and whatever gets left behind doesn't matter. From this viewpoint, value lies in information, which technology can refine away from the raw and uninteresting husk of the physical world." (p. 20)
[Ronald Coase] "Coase developed the notion of transaction costs. These are the costs of using the marketplace, of searching, evaluating, contracting, and enforcing. When it is cheaper to do these as an organization than as an individual, organizations will form. Conversely, as transaction costs fall, this glue dissolves and firms and organizations break apart." (p. 23)
"Ultimately, the theory suggests, if transaction costs become low enough, there will be no formal organizations, but only individuals in market relations." (p.23)
"Demassification of production relies on the massification of markets and consumption." (p. 27)
"If managers are primarily information processors, then information-processing equipment might replace them, and organizations will be flatter. If, on the other hand, there is more to management than information processing, then linear predictions about disintermediation within firms are too simple." (p.29)
"Harold Innis, an early communications theorist, noted how the international telegraph and telephone lines linking European capitals to their overseas colonies radically reduced the independence of overseas administrators. Previously, messages took so long to travel that most decisions had to be made locally. With rapid communication, they could be centralized. Similarly, histories of transnational firms suggest that with the appearance of the telegraph, overseas partners, once both financially and executively autonomous, were quickly absorbed by the 'home' office. [36]" (p. 30)
[Shoshona Zuboff] "Knowledge isn't really shared because management doesn't want to share authority and power." (p. 30)
[Shoshona Zuboff] "[It's] a problem of management not technology." (p. 31)
"The tight focus on information, with the implicit assumption that if we look after information everything else will fall into place, is ultimately a sort of social and moral blindness." (p. 31)
"The personal names - Sherlock, Jeeves, Bob, or Red - though they are surely harmless enough on their own, hint that the gap between digital and human is narrow and narrowing. Using human job titles such as 'personal assistant' or 'agent' for digital technologies closes this gap a little further, suggesting that these jobs might soon be open to real or virtual applicants alike." (p.39)
"Is your agent neutral, biased or merely weighted?" (p.45)
"Who really controls your agent, you, the designer, or the person feeding it information?" (p.45)
"Again, these sorts of bots are already in use and are helpful resources, providing the sort of information that makes markets more efficient, removing layers of intermediation in the process" (p.46)
"The buzz is all about personalization, product diversity, the demassification of production and consumption, and niche markets. Merchant brokering, however, heavily favors standardization." (p.46)
"Both service and quality, the economists [Brad de Long and Michael Froomkin] have argued, tend to get squeezed out of markets when low price becomes the decisive factor. [18] From the decisive factor, low price soon becomes the only factor. Network effects will tend to marginalize merchants who try to resist. With bots, which are not well suited to weigh subjective issues such as quality and service, these will probably disappear much more quickly." (p.46-47)
"The 'Net, some economists believe, will become home to perfect information. It will be harder to make it a place of perfect (and trustworthy) informers." (p.48)
"human negotiating is an intricate process that tends to keep an eye on externalities such as the social fabric as well as on the immediate goal." (p.48)
"The confident predictions about markets of negotiating bots, however, tend to assume that negotiating is little more than a matter of matching supply and demand." (p.48)
"Better bots, then, will require a better understanding of human negotiation, the contribution of the social fabric, and the role of human restraint in the functioning of the invisible hand." (p.52)
"If human agents are confused with digital ones, if human action is taken as mere information processing, and if the social complexities of negotiation, delegation, and representation are reduced to 'when x, do y,' bots will end up with autonomy without accountability. Their owners, by contrast, may have accountability without control." (p.55)
"The desire to show that with a computer one person can do everything may look not forward, but back to the stage in social evolution before anyone noticed the advantages of the division of labor." (p.70)
"Desktop publishing, for example, tries to put in a box on the desktop all the tools that previously were distributed among authors, editors, copy editors, proofreaders, designers, typesetters, and printers, each with their own embodied, inarticulate skill and judgement built out of experience." (p.79-80)
"Trying to transform the way work is done and simultaneously save money is usually a mistake, even when moving from cost-laden atoms to near-free bits. The demands of turning work that has been well supported by the local social system into work produced without most or any of that system requires a commitment to transformation, not a commitment to cost cutting." (p.82)
"For when costs are not met up front in the home office, they are deducted, stealth fashion, from the unbudgeted and unbillable time of the home worker." (p.80)
**"The business writers [Downes and Mui] turn this sort of argument into their 'Law of Disruption,' which holds that '[s]ocial, political, and economic systems change incrementally, but technology changes exponentially.[37]" (p.84)
"If society cannot make occasional, huge leaps and transformations, it will forever lag technology." (p.84-85)
"To accuse society of lagging lets technology and design off the hook too easily. It implies, in the end, that you can tear down walls, issue laptops and cell phones, or send people home with industrial-strength technology and them blame them if they don't adjust." (p.85)
"With this sharp distinction between value-adding and non-value-adding processes, reengineering insisted on sweeping away old practices." (p.92)
"In such well-defined processes, it is the 'longitudinal' links between each stage that appear to matter. Lateral ties among people doing similar tasks - among, for example, the people in shipping- appear at a heavy discount from a process-based perspective." (p.94)
"It is not surprising, then, that business process reengineering has had less success in the parts of organizations that are less linear and less clearly defined by process and information. Management, for example, has proved notoriously hard to reengineer. So has R&D." (p.95)
"[reengineering]...focuses most heavily on the input and output stages in a process. It is relatively indifferent to the internal workings of these stages." (p.95)
"it was perhaps inevitable that studies of workplace practice, of the internal life of process, would reveal tensions between the demands of process and the needs of practice." (p.95)
"They occur throughout, pitting the process-focused need for uniform organizational information against the practice-based struggle for locally coherent meaning." (p.96)
"He found that many of the problems faced by the health-insurance claim processors he studied could be traced to clashes over meaning and sense making." (p.96)
"To do their job, processors need to be able to make sense of what they do. The company offers explanations. But, from the processors' point of view, the organization's information and explanations are difficult to use. They explain things in terms of the company's overall goals and processes, but they take little account of the immediate practicalities of the claims processors' work." (p.96)
"Such imperatives make life easier for the company, but difficult for the processors, who need to understand what they do to do it well and also must justify their actions to customers." (p.96)
"Wenger's work reminds us that, while process is clearly important to the overall coherence of an organization, in the end it is the practice of the people who work in the organization that brings process to life, and, indeed, life to process." (p.96)
"They rely on process-based, cross-functional, longitudinal accounts of why things are done. From inside, people take a lateral view. The claims processors, for example, look less to their superiors or to the people to whom their work goes next than to their peer group for explanations of what they do and why. For them, knowledge comes more from fellow practitioners than cross-functional connections." (p.97)
"[we] tend to think of knowledge less like an assembly of discrete parts and more like a watercolor painting." (p.106)
"Stories are good at presenting things sequentially (this happened, then that). They are also good for presenting them causally (this happened because of that). Thus stories are a powerful means to understand what happened (the sequence of events) and why (the causes and effects of those events)." (p.106)
"For it is not shared stories or shared information so much as shared interpretation that bind people together." (p.107)
"Each of us thinks his own thoughts, our concepts we share.[Stephen Toulmin]" (p.107)
"[while] their organization may be a haven of routine, the rest of the world is not" (p.108)
"The gap to be bridged lies between reality and process, and it is bridged by the improvisation inherent in practice - so deeply inherent that the practitioners themselves are barely aware of it." (p.108)
"[endless] small forms of practical 'subversion' taken up in the name of getting work done.[Lucy Suchman]" (p.109)
"Directly or implicitly, organizational routines and processes encourage this sort of processing. In doing so, organizations make themselves blind to what lies outside the narrow tunnel of process." (p.110)
"So, by subordinating practice to process, an organization paradoxically encourages its employees to mislead it." (p.109)
"[virtual teams] of the cyberworkplace- tend to mirror conventional groups, not transcend them" (p.113)
"Lateral ties are as significant in cyberspace as in the old world." (p.113)
"We may then, be trying to lift a gun too heavy to handle to aim at a target too insubstantial to matter." (p.118)
"Is there, we begin by asking, something that knowledge catches, but that information does not?" (p.119)
"First, knowledge usually entails a knower." (p.119)
"Second, given this personal attachment, knowledge appears harder to detach than information. People treat information as a self-contained substance."´(p.120)
"Third, one reason knowledge may be so hard to give and receive is that knowledge seems to require more by way of assimilation. Knowledge is something we digest rather than merely hold. It entails the knower's understanding and some degree of commitment." (p.120)
"Focusing on knowledge, by contrast, turns attention toward knowers." (p.121)
"So, while the modern world often appears increasingly impersonal, in those areas where knowledge really counts, people count more than ever."(p.121)
"the information economy, like the industrial economy, shows a marked indifference to people" (p.121)
"It has been said, for example, that if NASA wanted to go to the moon again, it would have to start from scratch, having lost not the data, but the human expertise that took it there last time." (p.121-122)
"Circulating human knowledge, these experiences suggest, is not simply a matter of search and retrieval, as some views of knowledge management might have us believe. While knowledge is often not all that hard to search, it can be difficult to retrieve, if by retrieve people mean detach from one knower and attach to another." (p.124)
"The definitions of knowledge management beginning this chapter perform a familiar two-step. First, they define the core problem in terms of information, so that, second, they can put solutions in the province of information technology.[13] Here retrieval looks as easy as search." (p.124)
"[the] communication and the practice are inseparable. The talk made the work intelligible, and the work made the talk intelligible." (p.125)
"Become a member of a community, engage in its practices, and you can acquire and make use of its knowledge and information. Remain an outsider, and these will remain indigestible." (p.126) WILSON!
"knowledge, traveling on the back of practice, was readily shared" (p.126)
"people involved ignored divisions of rank and role to forge a single group around their shared task" (p.127)