"Thinking on the Web: Berners-Lee, Gödel and Turing" Wiley Interscience
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
"The traditional approach of building information systems has consisted of custom-made, costly database applications." (p.1)
"At the heart of the Information Revolution is the transformation of the world toward a knowledge economy with a knowledge society." (p.1)
"With software services being provided over the Web, one can readily see an analogy to the human (or machine) thinking process where information is stored, accessed, transferred and processed by electronic patterns in electrical devices and their interconnections." (p.5)
Nature of human intelligence: "the ability to learn, the ability to assimilate information, the ability to organize and process data, and the ability to apply knowledge to solve complex problems" (p.5)
"The Industrial Revolution became characterized by six basic characteristics: Standardization: mass production of identical parts. Concentration: work and energy maintained locally. Centralization: authoritative leadership. Specialization: division of labor. Synchronization: work at the pace of the machines. Maximization: strategic planning." (p.8)
"What makes the Web such a catalyst for change is its ability to take advantage of the marginal cost of information both for business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B)." (p.10)
"Although the ARPANET was originally designed to allow scientists to share data and access remote computers, email quickly became the most popular application. The ARPANET became a high-speed digital postoffice as people used it to collaborate on research projects." (p.11)
"For the Semantic Web to succeed, the expressive power of the logic added to its markup languages must be balanced against the resulting computational complexity." (p.21)
"Inferences are the processes where new assertions may be produced from existing ones." (p. 22)
"When relationships are independent of the assertions themselves, we call them 'formal.' Through these processes, logic provides a mechanism for the extension of knowledge. As a result, logic provides prescriptions for reasoning by machines, as well as, by people." (p. 22)
"Originally, logic consisted only of deductive reasoning that was concerned with a premise and a resultant deduction. However, it is important to note that inductive reasoning - the study of deriving a reliable generalization from observations - has also been included in the study of logic." (p.23)
"Description Logics (DLs) allow specifying a terminological hierarchy using a restricted set of first-order formulas. The DLS have nice computational properties (they are often decidable and tractable), but the inference services are restricted to classification and subsumption. That means, given formulas describing classes, the classifier associated with certain description logic will place them inside a hierarchy. Given an instance description, the classifier will determine the most specific classes to which the instance belongs." (p.30)
"First-order logics includes expressiveness beyond the overlap, notably positive disjunctions; existentials; and entailment of nonground and nonatomic conclusions." (p.31)
"Horn FOL is another fragment of FOL. Horn Logic Program (LP) is a slight weakening of Horn FOL. 'Weakening' here means that the conclusions from a given set of Horn premises that are entailed according to the Horn LP formalism are a subset of the conclusions entailed (from that same set of premises) according to the Horn FOL formalism." (p.31)
"Data is raw; it exists and has no significance beyond its existence. It can exist in any form, usable or not. It does not have meaning by itself." (p.33)
"Information on the other hand is an explicit association between items of data. Associations represent a function relating one set of things to another set of things. Information can be considered to be data that has been given meaning by way of relational connections. This 'meaning' can be useful but does not have to be. A relational database creates information from the data stored within it." (p.33)
"Knowledge can be considered to be an appropriate collection of information, such that it is useful. Knowledge-based systems contain knowledge as well as information and data. A rule is an explicit functional association from a set of information things to a specific information thing. As a result, a rule is knowledge." (p.33)
"Understanding is an interpolative and probabilistic process that is cognitive and analytical. It is the process by which one can take existing knowledge and synthesize new knowledge." (p.33)
"Three techniques have been popular to express knowledge representation and inference: (1) logic-based approaches, (2) rule-based systems, and (3) frames and semantic networks." (p.33)
"Any formalism that admits a declarative semantics and can be interpreted as a programming language and a database language is a knowledge language." (p.33)
"[RDF] is roughly limited to binary ground predicates and RDF Schema is roughly limited to a subclass hierarchy and a property hierarchy with domain and range constraints." (p.39)
"Both RDF and OWL (DL and Lite) are specializations of predicate logic." (p.39)
"This means that in an environment like the Web, HOL and FFOL programs would not scale up for handling huge amounts of knowledge. Besides, full first theorem proving would mean maintaining consistency throughout the web, which is impossible." (p.40)